h1. (function($,_){})(jQuery, jsPath);

jquery-jspath is a very special jquery plugin that is designed, like jquery (thanks to jquery-collections), 
to deliver a platform for utility plugins that address javascript native objects and arrays, like jquery addresses
the document object model.

all of this functionality could have been tacked directly onto the jquery namespace '$' but we decided to give
a hoot and not pollute, filling another well known javascript symbol '_'.  that's right... '_'.

h2. why (function(_){})(jsPath);

at it's very core, this plugin integrates two wonderful projects, jquery-collections by ariel flesler and 
jspath by stefan goessner.  combining the two results in a very small, simple and elegant way of adding
jquery-like handling of javascript objects.

h3. how about a useful example before i loose interest

ok how about this one

@@@javascript
$.getJSON(url, function(address_book){
	_('..contact[?(@.name && @.number)]', address_book).each(function(){
	   console.log('name %s, number %s', this.name, this.number);
	});
});
//>name chris, number 123-456-7890
//>name john, number 321-465-9078
//>name david, number 213-654-0987
@@@

nice!  thank you may I have another?  

yes you may.  this one uses a jquery-jspath plugin called jquery-objtree which provides a pretty little gem called _.fn.x

@@@javascript
$.getJSON(url, function(address_book){
	$('#address_book').html(
		_('..contact[?(@.name && @.number)]', address_book).map(function(){
		   return {li: {a: {$href:'#'+this.name, $:this.number}}};
		}).x();
	});
});
/* results in:
<ul id='address_book'>
  <li><a href="#chris">123-456-7890</a></li>
  <li><a href="#john">321-465-9078</a></li>
  <li><a href="#david">213-654-0987</a></li>
</ul>
*/
@@@

oh no you didn't! oh yes we did and there is so much more.

h2. ready for more?

have at, we hope to create a user group as soon as we have enough interest.  in the mean time check out these 
jquery-jspath plugins:

* http://github.com/thatcher/jquery-jspath
* http://github.com/thatcher/jquery-json
* http://github.com/thatcher/jquery-loremipsum
* http://github.com/thatcher/jquery-objtree
* http://github.com/thatcher/jquery-xslt

qlso please check out the spec for each plugin (test/test.html).  special thanks to aaron quint for the 
jqunit-spec plugin that all of these plugins use!




